So, let's talk about structuring the database.
So, the two biggest concepts of data modeling and
relational databases are normalization and denormalization.
Normalization: to reduce data redundancy and increase data integrity.
Reduce data redundancy, right?
What is data redundancy stand for?
That means, copies of my data.
Increase data integrity, what is data integrity mean again?
That means that the answer that I get back from the database is the correct answer.
Two very important things.
Denormalization: this is a process that must be
done if you're doing read heavy workloads to increase performance.
So, normalization will feel like a natural process.
It's going to feel natural.
Not as you go through the normal forms.
Third normal form starts to feel little unnatural but that's okay.
But it should feel like a natural process.
You're going to be reducing the number of copies of the data and
increasing the likelihood that your data is correct in all locations.
That feels very natural,
feels like something that we want to do.
Denormalization: it will not feel as natural.
You're going to have duplicate copies of your data.
That may not feel natural to you, right?
That may seem like, "Well,
if I have all this information in one column,
I don't want to have it all in another column in a table,
I want to normalize it."
But sometimes denormalization must be done for performance reasons,
and we're going to talk about that here in a couple of minutes.
So, these tables are going to be more focused on the queries that will be run.
This is what we were talking about when we were talking about
NoSQL databases yesterday in lesson one.
Okay. So, let's focus a little bit more on normalization.
The process of structuring a relational database in accordance with a series of
normal forms in order to reduce data redundancy and increase data integrity.
So, this process was actually proposed again by Edgar Codd.
He sound like he's must be the father of relational databases.
Normalization organizes the columns and tables in a database to ensure that
their dependencies are properly enforced by the database integrity constraints.
We don't want or need extra copies of our data,
that is data redundancy.
We want to be able to update our data in one place and have that be the source of truth,
that is data integrity.
The more copies of the data is that the more likely that our data could be out of date,
not updated or incorrect.
Let's look at the example in the next slide.
So, here's an example of the table that we'll be using later in our demo in our exercise.
Let's say that we have a table, called music_ library.
Looks pretty standard.
We have some two rows here and variety of columns,
but this is not a normalized table.
As we walk through the process of moving to third normal form,
we will learn why.